Final Project

Kelley Kelley
CSCI 5229 Fall 2021

What you should do: hold down w
Move around with like wasd eq
Also turn your volume on

Why I deserve an A:
Because I made procedurally generated bezier curve trees
So technically anyone who has a finite space I did infinite more work
then them since I generate infinite more objects and space
that's how that works right????
There's also some other random cool ish nonsense but that's the most
spectacular and outstanding really

What I mean by bezier curve trees: each tree is multiple bezier curves
first I generate a set of points that represent the trees control points
then I build sets of control points based on those
then I make them into a bezier curve
then I take the derivative of that to build a normal vector so I can
thicken the tree

Time Spent:
oh, oops, forgot this was a thing
Uh, maybe like + 14 ish hours 
starting to track now
+ 4 hours
How long was I supposed to spend on it by now?
+ 12 hours (yes I sat down and worked on this for 12 hours straight....
it was a bad idea and I got nothing done just really confused)
+ 6 hrs
+ 4 hrs
so 40 ish hrs give or take 40
(I put way too many hours into trees (did like 10 different methods))
(plus bezier took me way too long to wrap my head around)
(this is problamatic I don't think I'm getting an A)
I forgot again to record this
like, 5 ish
+ another 5
+ like another 5
+ 3
so maybe like 68 ish hours total? idk. give or take like 65 hours

Key Bindings
Player Controls:
wasd: move around
eq: rotate view

Light Controls:
1: stops light from moving
z/Z: move the light (have to stop it first)

Grading/Debug Controls:
ESC: exit on ESC key
ArrowKeys: Move Camera around
Page Up/Down: Zoom in/out
p: change projection types (orthogonal blank hit p again)

Credits:
Perlin noise equation: https://gist.github.com/nowl/828013
Procedural Generation Tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZZY9YE7rZJw

Done Requirements from proposal:
- Walk in any direction forever and the scene will keep adding objects and terrain while removing far away objects and terrain.
- Procedurally generated forest
- Terrain change in elevation but player remain same height on ground
- different day night cycle.
- Day is typical forest lit by one revolving light source
- Night player has flashlight and scenery changes to be spookier
- did sound because I wanted to not in my proposal

Need to do.....dang.....yea that's all not getting done oops
spent way too long on just niiiiccceeeee trees
- AI that moves toward the player during the day and away from the player at night
- AI monster from front but simple and friendly from behind
- shaders on it
- Trees will have different textures, branches will move, lighting within the trees like lightning bugs and stars.
- Objects generated: trees, fallen logs, bushes, each with a bit of randomness to them.
- When AI is close during the day red veins grow on the screen.
- When AI is far at night cold snowy effect on screen

Stretch Goals:
1) player collision with procedural objects
2) player jump so can jump over some objects
3) particles to the trees at night or during day like leaves falling
4) wind that makes trees and particles sway
5) add buildings to objects generated like a cabin
6) add furniture to buildings with collisions and multi floored buildings
7) biomes. So areas generated and areas have a theme
8) cities biome with very simple people that walk randomly